# #1: about love stories, automation, and writing 
1. [love stories (& more)](#love-stories)
2. [automation](#automation)
3. [writing](#writing)

## love stories

Love come in many forms. What are you willing to do for love? Can love really solve everything? *(probably more on this later)*

[About Time (2013)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/About_Time_(2013_film)) (Watched on Valentine's day with friends): 
* Summary: A young man, Tim, learns he has inherited an ability to travel back to any time/place in his life. We follow his journey about using time travel for the purpose of love (romance, friendship, family). One caveat is that he cannot travel and change events before the birth of his children or end up returning to a different child altogether. 
* Where in my lifetime would I travel and why? Fellow movie watchers and I briefly discussed this afterwards: one roommate said he would go back to the start of college. I said that it is hard to choose because as much as I might regret some things, I also wouldn't want to experience them again. There are people I miss dearly and would wish to see again but perhaps it is better to just treasure memories with them. 
* Given other stories about changing things in the past ([tenet (2020)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenet_(film)), [loki/marvel universe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loki_(TV_series))), how does it actually work here? Does changing the past lead to a new branch of the future? If Tim and his father both travel to the same time but from different futures, who are they interacting with? Do their minds merge across timelines and what do their past selves know/remember? 

[The Wild Robot (2024)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wild_Robot) (I watched this on the plane returning from Boston): 
* Summary: A helper robot becomes stranded on an island of animals. Originally designed to complete tasks for humans, she learns to "program" herself and decides to raise a goosling. She learns about love, creativity, and breaking out of one's box (innate desires and goals). 
* can AI learn emotions and break out of programming in this way? it would be so cool to understand animals in this way ... 
* can something be learned/used in a certain way it wasn't designed for that purpose? e.g. a robot learning to love and her feelings surpassing memory erasure. 

[When Harry met Sally (1989)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Harry_Met_Sally...)(I watched this on the plane returning from Boston): 
* Summary: Can men and women be *just* friends? Sally and Harry have an initially antagonistic interaction as new grads driving to New York City together. As years go by, they develop a strong friendship (especially post breakup/divorce). After an *accidental* night together, they reconsider their relationship. 
* Why is Harry depicted as a divorcée and womanizer (never committing to anyone for long) while Sally is only shown in 2 serious relationships? In fact, Sally broke up with her long term partner because she realized she wanted children/family. 
* Despite the aged messages from this movie, Harry and Sally do have develop a nice friendship with pretty good communication.

[10 Things I Hate About You](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/10_Things_I_Hate_About_You)

[Grease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grease_(film))

[Chungking Express](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chungking_Express) (Watched with friends in an empty colloquium auditorium one wednesday night)
* Summary: There are a few independent yet interconnected stories. One police officer has been broken up with by his girlfriend named May. He remains hopeful for a month, buying canned pineapple everyday in May (until that batch of pineapple expires and his birthday arrives). His story intersects with a woman in disguise who is both chasing and running. In a second story, another police man has been broken up with by his flight attendant girlfriend. He is a regular at a pizza kebab shop. A girl working there (defined by [California Dreamin'](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6TyH-dQUV0)) dreams of him and starts literally changing his life piece by piece. 
* It made me deeply uncomfortable to see the so openly vulnerable desire expressed by the characters in the story. What does it mean to yearn so uncontrollably? Why do we [desire to desire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8irwma2-504)? 
* Who do we allow to touch us and why (physically and emotionally)? What kind of image do we construct for others to see, especially those who we seek something from?

## automation
["Why Automate This? Exploring the Connection between Time Use, Well-being and Robot Automation Across Social Groups"](https://hri1260.github.io/why-automate-this/):
* Outcome: Authors explore three datasets to find the relationship between tasks people would want robots to do for them, time spent on tasks, and emotions experienced on activities (respectively). Overall, there is some relatonship between desire to automate with a lack of happiness experienced for men. For women, there is a small correlation between how stressful an activity is and desire to automate. (Most of the tasks are related to housework.)

Thoughts and connections: 
* How does a person's age/generation affect what they would like to automate? What about automation with *robots* (perhaps physical tasks) or *AI* (perhaps more digital/mental tasks)? 
    * I could imagine that people in training would want a robot/AI to help them with tasks they are less confident with but hope to do well in (e.g. students writing graded essays). 
* What is the relationship between gender (identity) and motivation for tasks? I could imagine that for some (e.g. women, parents), duty (maybe stressful) may come before happiness experienced. This could help explain the current results? 
* Many times in history, technology for something actually increased workload and stress rather than helping (e.g. the invention of the cotton gin with slavery in american cotton plantations). Automating something might not increase happiness or wellbeing -- rather it might just increase the productivity expectations. 
* Many people I know use copilot, cursor, and other embedded AI code helpers. Why? On the other hand, why do I use llms (with programming) and why don't I want it to be integrated with vscode/ide? 
    * Coding can be tedious (boring, lack of happiness) and requires contiuous learning (especially as new languages and methods are developed). As long as one first makes a sort of *pseudocode*, it is very easy to ask a llm to fill in the details. On the other hand, if one doesn't really know what they want, they might keep prompting an llm to ask for ideas and refine them. 
    * The idea of an embedded AI helper could seem appealing since it takes some of the "cognitive strain" off of keeping track of different treads, looking for particular code areas, writing clean/organized code, and more. Many friends seem to enjoy the fact that they can work *faster* and have nicer code. 
    * I don't want to become too reliant on another's "intelligence." Sometimes it is hard to parse results if it is not personally created with through thinking and iterations. I feel as if I am still learning many things and only want to ask a llm fairly pointed questions (many do end up being repetitive R tasks...) rather than constantly have another set of eyes on the entire project. Generally, I feel worried about losing practice in "high cognitive load" tasks and want to improve my writing/coding skills. 
* What could I imagine automated? I do agree that general cleaning could be helpful to be automated -- perhaps a robot could help people dispose of waste correctly (actually recycle and compost) & perhaps living conditions could be improved across the board. Pollution and industry waste disproportionally affects BIPOC ([WGS.275 gender, race, and climate justice](https://wgs.mit.edu/spring2022/wgs275)). Again, this could very much backfire and end up causing more work ...

## writing

After too many discussions about *existential crises*, a friend recommended I write them down. Writing helps with reflecting and  writing might be so ardous a process I stop thinking about the crises at all. 

* Goals: 
    * grow a sort of [digital garden](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tY7Z53QJo8) ([context/history](https://maggieappleton.com/garden-history/)) to keep track of how different interests are connected! I have gotten into the habit of mindlessly consuming and want to output a bit more. 
    * follow Herbert Clark's [Everyone Can Write Better](https://www.lri.fr/~anab/teaching/CareerSeminar/Clark.pdf)
    * write consistently!!! I will try to write a few times a week (any topic)

* Writing is a bit difficult for me since I have become accustomed to mindlessly doomscrolling. Since deleting tiktok, I have resolved to be more mindful about what I [consume](https://substack.com/@sashachapin/p-153817117) and how time is spent. I also haven't really been reflecting for a while -- it is a bit easier to block out things sometimes and mindlessly escape into someone else's world (repression as A.Z. would say: pushing out & replacing the current). 
* I do wish to become a better writer and generally feel like my thoughts are cohesive... 

------------
Last updated: 04/24/2025
Created: 02/15/2025

[Back to the full garden!](./index.md)