# #2: reflections on first cogsci submissions (& research in general) 
1. [CogSci 2025](#cogsci-2025)
2. [ed. research](#ed-research) 
3. [existential crises](#existential-crises)

## CogSci 2025

### DSP/SOLDS
* DSP Background: Data science pathways (DSP) started a few years ago at UCSD with E.B., H.L., and other members of the lab. The goal is to analyze longitudinal student data from an online data science/statistics learning platform, [CourseKata (CK)](https://coursekata.org/), to find out what factors influence student learning. CK includes interactive learning activities (quizzes, open response, code boxes, multiple choice questions) and surveys (assessing mindset, beliefs, attitudes throughout the course). The platform collects data in the form of activity responses and engagement traces (timestamps of when an action is taken or something is completed). 
* SOLDS Background: In Fall 2024, J.F. and I developed a mindset intervention pilot experiment to run in an intro course that quarter. In addition to the material presented and data collected by CK, we also administered pre-course & mid-course surveys, mindset intervention module (embedded in CK), and interactive p-value lab activity. The intervention had two versions: stress-reframing/strategic mindset intervention, neuro-mechanistic control activity. 
* Process: The analysis was quite complicated (imo) for both datasets. DSP used all 2023 course data (1000+ students, ~40 classrooms) and included multiple textbook versions with slight variation. SOLDS also included two qualtrics surveys (including additional survey items in a different format) and Canvas course data. Both datasets required a lot of preprocessing and merging. The survey item responses were formatted in an unintuitive way (sometimes hard to figure out which question it corresponded to) and we hand assigned *constructs* to group the items (sort of based on ck but sort of not). Our goal was to find the relationship between the survey constructs, between the constructs and engagement, and between the constructs, engagement, and learning. We operationalized engagement in two ways: (1) the proportion of pages a student completed in a chapter/out of the textbook as compared the all the pages anyone in their class completed; (2) the (z-score) average page completion rate. There really wasn't a relationship between engagement with constructs or engagement with learning, surprisingly(?). I ended up spending almost the entirety of January trying various analyses and modeling. It was hard for me to tell if the relationships just weren't there, if the measurement methods were unable discern the relationships, or if the analysis had errors... I'm pretty sure the data was just very noisy though. Saturday night before the deadline, I finally finished making all the figures in illustrator (I understand the hype! it is quite fun) and somehow managed to write a draft before Sunday morning. This sort of academic writing is fairly formulaic but I had a hard time starting the process and kept procrastinating ... Thankfully, J.F. and E.B. were able to answer some questions and do some editing and it was submitted at a very reasonable time.
* Reflection: I do feel like I learned *a lot* from the entire process and it is very empowering to know that I am capable of writing? sort of? The results don't feel quite satisfying though but I do understand this project is very much in progress (the point of CogSci anyways!). I am sort of stressed out by the state of my code repo which started out reasonably organized but soon became bloated with terrible version control and exploratory analyses. 

### Fun Puzzles (Sokoban)
* Background *(more to come)*: What makes a game fun? What makes a game difficult? What is the relationship between difficulty and fun? Why do some games become extremely popular while others are soon forgotten? J.C. had been developing this project for a while before I joined. We used the puzzle game [Sokoban](http://sokobano.de/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page), a grid world game that classically involves guiding a character to push boxes to goals (many-to-many problem). 
* Process: This project involved two parts: (1) *[gleaning](./3_02-16-2025.md#gleaning)* puzzle data from the popular website, [sokobanonline.com](https://www.sokobanonline.com/); (2) running more targeted experiments on prolific. I was mainly tasked the with gleaning aka webscraping portion. It was honestly mostly quite enjoyable,  sort of a puzzle game itself, to iteratively figure out how to borrow large amounts of information from a website. We collected information on puzzle layout (see example below), # likes/dislikes, # plays, shortest solutions, etc. Later, we also ran the [a* pathfinding algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm) on the puzzles (mostly ones with > 200 plays) to find the shortest length solution. Ultimately, this gave us solution-based and visual puzzle features to compare with reactions. 
* Reflection: I really enjoyed this project! It was a lot of fun to build/glean a dataset and carefully select relevant information. Game-based cogsci research is often conducted with online experiments and doesn't necessarily incorporate real-world data so it was really cool to have both here. I was able to use some of the methods I learned from the [DSP/SOLDS](./2_02-16-2025.md#dspsolds) project here. There is *a lot* more that can be done (other features like dead zones, modern puzzles with portals, human puzzle solving traces) and we have barely scratched the surface. Perhaps I wasn't quite as stressed from this project because someone else did all the hard thinking and planning ... 

Sample puzzle layout [(alberto garcia: collection 1-1, #15)](https://www.sokobanonline.com/play/web-archive/alberto-garcia/1-1/3387_1-1-15): "#" are walls, "$" are boxes, "." are goals, and "@" is the character's position. 
```
[
    "###   #####",
    "# #####   #",
    "#    #  #@#",
    "#  $     ##",
    "##$ #.  ##",
    "#  $## .#",
    "##.  # ##",
    " ##    #",
    "  ######"
  ]
```

### General thoughts:
*coming soon!*

Why are games fun? Why is studying games fun? 

## Ed. Research 

Education research (perhaps more like psychology/cognitive science as applied to real world educational contexts) is incredibly important for our communities and for science. Clearly not all students do "well" in school or on standardized assessments (designed probably to be easy to grade rather than to be optimal measurements of learning). Many students, in fact, dread school, learning, math, science, etc. -- this might be due to negative past experiences, beliefs about themselves, and feelings about the school environment & materials. On the other hand, in psychology/cognitive science, we study learning but typically in short timescale, controlled settings. For example, people might be tested on learning vocabulary or math problems in 1-2 hour sessions or over the course of a few weeks (TODO cite ...). Can we really understand human learningd and development if we don't take into consideration formal curriculums, instruction, and school? Can "intuitive" theories of psychology and physics be separated from the influence of social interactions and learning in school? Students probably learn about social norms and gravity... Why is education research and development so divided from cognitive/psych research anyways? One short answer: it is difficult!!

The challenges of educational research (probably agreed upon by most): in-person/classroom studies tend to require much longer duration with less control. [Heterogeneous Effects in Education](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.3102/0091732X18759040) can make it impossible to measure and know every factor that impacts learning (lots of variation in identity, background, environments, etc). In contrast, "traditional" lab experiments can be iterated on much faster (especially online studies) and different components can be relatively modeled in detail. With online learning platforms (CK, [Edx](https://www.edx.org/), etc), it is much easier to collect longitudinal data with detailed process traces and implment different experiment versions. However, the beauty and issue could still be that this work is on real students and can truly impact their lives: this work is meant to be long-term because school/learning takes years. 

How do I feel about this? I feel a bit mixed: on one hand, it is amazing to be able to apply research to real-world application so quickly; on the other hand, this work requires a lot of commitment and time (less immediate gratification...). The real-world data is also much more complicated and noisy -- harder to interpret and takes many studies to build theories. More personally, I am not yet perceived as a "real" cognitive scientist and this research area isn't too mainstream yet (perhaps my world is too small but I don't want to be pigeonholed here). For a more established researcher, doing this work could be perceived as applying their existing skills/research to a broader, more impactful context. For a person just starting out like myself, it can feel like the research topic I am pursuing defines my research identity and career steps very strongly (despite not quite being what I want to study long term). Education & mindset intervention research is fairly established as a field and might be perceived in some way? I do want to do impactful research but I want fundamental training and "establishment" in some way first. When I am asked to describe my research interests and current work, it is hard to explain how it applies to (computational) cognitive science. In many ways, I didn't really think that much about what I was getting into when I decided to start doing this research -- I mostly wanted to gain skills in communication, figure out a more clear research direction, and become more "independent." I was and am so glad to have this opportunity but it feels like it is taking me further away from my original goals (most presentations and talks are about this main project so it feels like I'm presenting myself in this way). I didn't actually set out to study learning but rather broadly visual reasoning and my current project with mindset interventions is quite different from that plan (despite very much more "visual" topics existing within education/ stats literacy research including with graphs/visualizations). I have been part of other projects (sketching, games) but it is mostly as a supporting role. *(More probably on this later ... something about mechanistic models as opposed to descriptive models)*

Basically, the problem really isn't with this research topic at all but how it aligns with my goals and self-presentation. I feel constrained/in a crisis because it feels like betrayal either way and I also don't have much power/control with this.

## research existential crises

I am overthinking again about the future and applications ... How do I present myself as a researcher and what do I actually care about? How do I even put into words what I care about? Does it even matter what I care about (should it even matter to me)? 

<!-- * The science more than the application (which is still very important!!)
* Something visual & sort of design/creative (maybe there is a way to make math games fun)
* highly engineered models to help “turn the knobs” as E.B. would say → know very clearly how things are done and how components relate
* humans and their brains/minds are a priority! (compared to machines, purely behavioral measures) -->

------------
Last updated: 02/16/2025
Created: 02/16/2025

<!-- [Back to the full garden!](./index.md) -->